# Terrain-Generator
This is the RnD project of Team 44. It is a tool that can be used to procedurally generate and paint terrain.
If you need help understanding what file to run, where to find the code, etc.: please see 'Folder Structure'. If you need help using the program, see 'User Guide'.

**The build provided is 64-bit Windows. It was designed with a computer with a dedicated GPU in mind.** Please contact us if you don't have suitable hardware.

## Folder Structure
If everything went correctly, we submitted 3 things in Brightspace.
1.  This file you're reading. A copy is also in the program itself.
2.  A .zip containing a Unity project.
3.  An .exe for the setup.

In order to install the program, please execute the setup.exe and follow the instructions it provides.
The program will be installed in your Program Files, unless you specify otherwise. If you make any saves using the program, these will be stored in 
"{your userprofile}/AppData/LocalLow/R&D-Team-44/Terrain-Generator/Saves".

In order to view the project as it was created, unzip the zip. Inside you will find several subfolders that together constitute a Unity project. If you have the Unity Editor installed, you can open the folder using the UnityEditor in order to view the project.

Most of the content in the zip was automatically generated by the Unity Engine. Our contributions can be found entirely in the 'Assets' folder. We opted to organise the assets by feature. So for example, if you look inside 'Brush' you will find almost entirely self-contained (UI is stored in 'Assets/UI') assets for the brush feature. 
We hope this information helps you grade our project :)

## User Guide
To install a build of the final program, please execute the setup.exe and follow the instructions it provides.
The easiest way to find the actual program is to ask the setup to create a desktop shortcut. Alternatively, you can go into your Program Files and execute 'Terrain-Generator.exe'.

If you want to test the app, you could do so by recreating some terrain you found an image of online or have seen irl. We managed to do a pretty good recreation of the Dutch Uiterwaarden!

### Menu
Upon loading the program, you will find yourself in the Main Menu. 

Under the options tab you can change some graphical settings. We recomend setting the quality to 'Pretty', and leaving the Resolution as is (it should automatically detect a good resolution). But the options are there in case you'd like to manually change them.

Under the load tab you can find a list of your saved terrain cavases. You can choose to load one, or delete them.

Under the Readme tab, you find this file. Hi.

Press 'New Canvas' to create a new terrain. You can use the little schlwoop underneath the button to alter the canvas size. We recommend you stick to a fairly low size for your first canvas. 2x2 or 3x3 should be more than enough.

### Tabs
When you load a canvas or create a new one, you will find yourself in the canvas scene. You can always press escape or press the button in the top-left corner to open a menu that will let you go back, or save your current terrain. 
To create your terrain, we recommend you go to the top-right corner of the screen, and open one of the tabs.

The generation tab will allow you to procedurally generate terrain. **This will overwrite any changes you have made using a brush!** Try to play around with the given settings until you get an intuition of what they do, and find something that looks fairly close to the intended contour of your terrain.
In order to use the generation tab correctly, you should first set all of the desired settings in their respective little menus, and then press the 'Generate!' button to overwrite the terrain.

In the graphics tab you can change the colour of your terrain, and the surrounding elements. Use this tab to change the colour and depth of the water, and the colour of the terrain. You can even change the sky! (If changing the sky appears to have an effect on the terrain/water, that's just the lighting changing. Your colours are still the same.)
**Changing the procedural colour generation of the terrain will overwrite any colours you made using a brush! Don't even touch this tab if you want your brushed colours to stay!**
*Last Minute Edit: For some reason if you slide the sliders in the Graphics tab enough they will sort of lock themselves. If this happens just save and load the terrain and you'll be good :)*

As an alternative to the generation tab, you could use the map tab. This allows you to pick an existing map (currently, the selection is limited to the Netherlands, Curacao, and Europe) and set it as your terrain. Note that the map will scale with your canvas size! If you set your canvas to 1x10 and set the map to Europe, you will find that Europe is 10 times as long as in real life!
Unfortunately the Netherlands is beneath sea level, and won't really show up. We should have thought about that :(.
Pressing 'Apply!' applies the map to your canvas. **This will overwrite any changes you have made using a brush!**

It is a good idea to use the tabs to make your terrain look similar to your desired result before moving on to brushing.

### Brushing
In the bottom-left corner of the screen you fill find your brushes. Use the brush UI to set a desired radius and intensity/colour, and click on the terrain to use the brush.

Currently there are three brushes:
1. Raise/Lower: Makes the terrain higher or lower, depending on intensity.
2. Flatten: Flattens the terrain to the lowest point found in the brush area. *Use a small brush to limit what the lowest point is!*
3. Paint: Paints the terrain a different colour.

Use the brushes to fill in special details on the map, that the procedural generation couldn't have created for you. 

Once you are done you can save your terrain in the pause menu. Good luck!

## Credits & Copyright
The project was created using Unity Engine under a personal license (https://unity3d.com/unity/activation/personal).
The project content outside the 'Assets' folder was automatically generated by Unity.

Within the 'Assets' folder, all content is ours, except for the following:
- The real maps were created using Tangrams (https://github.com/tangrams/tangram), using real height data.
- The skyboxes were created by 'rpgwhitelock' , on the Unity Asset store. We are using them under the Standard Unity Asset Store EULA.
- The normal map used in the Water shader was created by 'Cebbi', on https://textures.pixel-furnace.com/. As the website says, "All textures on textures.pixel-furnace.com are free to use for non-commercial and commercial projects."
-  The icons used in the BrushUI were taken from flaticons.com, under their Flaticon License:
    https://www.flaticon.com/premium-icon/paint-palette_3672808?term=paint&page=1&position=3&page=1&position=3&related_id=3672808&origin=search
    https://www.flaticon.com/premium-icon/new-moon_686751?term=circle&page=1&position=1&page=1&position=1&related_id=686751&origin=search
    https://www.flaticon.com/premium-icon/land_1824139?term=hill&page=1&position=6&page=1&position=6&related_id=1824139&origin=search
-  The colour selector was created by 'Ward Dehairs' on the Unity Asset store. We are using them under the Standard Unity Asset Store EULA.
